* AWS [Add Lifecycle Policy to S3 Buckets](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Add_Lifecycle_Policy_To_S3_Buckets.ipynb): Attaching lifecycle policies to AWS S3 buckets enables us to automate the management of object lifecycle in your storage buckets. By configuring lifecycle policies, you can define rules that determine the actions to be taken on objects based on their age or other criteria. This includes transitioning objects to different storage classes, such as moving infrequently accessed data to lower-cost storage tiers or archiving them to Glacier, as well as setting expiration dates for objects. By attaching lifecycle policies to your S3 buckets, you can optimize storage costs by automatically moving data to the most cost-effective storage tier based on its lifecycle. Additionally, it allows you to efficiently manage data retention and comply with regulatory requirements or business policies regarding data expiration. This runbook helps us find all the buckets without any lifecycle policy and attach one to them.
* AWS [AWS Update Resources about to expire](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Add_Tag_Across_Selected_AWS_Resources.ipynb): This finds resources that have an expiration tag that is about to expire.  Can eitehr send a Slack message in 'auto'mode, or can be used to manually remediate the issue interactively.
* AWS [AWS Bulk Update Resource Tag](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Bulk_Update_Resource_Tag.ipynb): This runbook will find all AWS Resources tagged with a given key:value tag.  It will then update the tag's value to a new value. This can be used to bulk update the owner of resources, or any other reason you might need to change the tag value for many AWS resources.
* AWS [Change AWS EBS Volume To GP3 Type](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Change_EBS_Volume_To_GP3_Type.ipynb): This runbook can be used to change the type of an EBS volume to GP3(General Purpose 3). GP3 type volume has a number of advantages over it's predecessors. gp3 volumes are ideal for a wide variety of applications that require high performance at low cost
* AWS [Change AWS Route53 TTL](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Change_Route53_TTL.ipynb): For a record in a hosted zone, lower TTL means that more queries arrive at the name servers because the cached values expire sooner. If you configure a higher TTL for your records, then the intermediate resolvers cache the records for longer time. As a result, there are fewer queries received by the name servers. This configuration reduces the charges corresponding to the DNS queries answered. However, higher TTL slows the propagation of record changes because the previous values are cached for longer periods. This Runbook can be used to configure a higher value of a TTL .
* AWS [Delete EBS Volume Attached to Stopped Instances](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Delete_EBS_Volumes_Attached_To_Stopped_Instances.ipynb): EBS (Elastic Block Storage) volumes are attached to EC2 Instances as storage devices. Unused (Unattached) EBS Volumes can keep accruing costs even when their associated EC2 instances are no longer running. These volumes need to be deleted if the instances they are attached to are no more required. This runbook helps us find such volumes and delete them.
* AWS [Delete EBS Volume With Low Usage](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Delete_EBS_Volumes_With_Low_Usage.ipynb): This runbook can help us identify low usage Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) volumes and delete these volumes in order to lower the cost of your AWS bill. This is calculates using the VolumeUsage metric. It measures the percentage of the total storage space that is currently being used by an EBS volume. This metric is reported as a percentage value between 0 and 100.
* AWS [Delete ECS Clusters with Low CPU Utilization](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Delete_ECS_Clusters_with_Low_CPU_Utilization.ipynb): ECS clusters are a managed service that allows users to run Docker containers on AWS, making it easier to manage and scale containerized applications. However, running ECS clusters with low CPU utilization can result in wasted resources and unnecessary costs. AWS charges for the resources allocated to a cluster, regardless of whether they are fully utilized or not. By deleting clusters that are not being fully utilized, you can reduce the number of resources being allocated and lower the overall cost of running ECS. Furthermore, deleting unused or low-utilization clusters can also improve overall system performance by freeing up resources for other applications that require more processing power. This runbook helps us to identify such clusters and delete them.
* AWS [Delete AWS ELBs With No Targets Or Instances](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Delete_ELBs_With_No_Targets_Or_Instances.ipynb): ELBs are used to distribute incoming traffic across multiple targets or instances, but if those targets or instances are no longer in use, then the ELBs may be unnecessary and can be deleted to save costs. Deleting ELBs with no targets or instances is a simple but effective way to optimize costs in your AWS environment. By identifying and removing these unused ELBs, you can reduce the number of resources you are paying for and avoid unnecessary charges. This runbook helps you identify all types of ELB's- Network, Application, Classic that don't have any target groups or instances attached to them.
* AWS [Delete Old EBS Snapshots](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Delete_Old_EBS_Snapshots.ipynb): Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) snapshots are created incrementally, an initial snapshot will include all the data on the disk, and subsequent snapshots will only store the blocks on the volume that have changed since the prior snapshot. Unchanged data is not stored, but referenced using the previous snapshot. This runbook helps us to find old EBS snapshots and thereby lower storage costs.
* AWS [Delete RDS Instances with Low CPU Utilization](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Delete_RDS_Instances_with_Low_CPU_Utilization.ipynb): Deleting RDS instances with low CPU utilization is a cost optimization strategy that involves identifying RDS instances with consistently low CPU usage and deleting them to save costs. This approach helps to eliminate unnecessary costs associated with running idle database instances that are not being fully utilized. This runbook helps us to find and delete such instances.
* AWS [Delete Redshift Clusters with Low CPU Utilization](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Delete_Redshift_Clusters_with_Low_CPU_Utilization.ipynb): Redshift clusters are the basic units of compute and storage in Amazon Redshift, and they can be configured to meet specific performance and cost requirements. In order to optimize the cost and performance of Redshift clusters, it is important to regularly monitor their CPU utilization. If a cluster is consistently showing low CPU utilization over an extended period of time, it may be a good idea to delete the cluster to save costs. This runbook helps us find such clusters and delete them.
* AWS [Delete Unused AWS Secrets](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Delete_Unused_AWS_Secrets.ipynb): This runbook can be used to delete unused secrets in AWS.
* AWS [Delete Unused AWS Log Streams](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Delete_Unused_Log_Streams.ipynb): Cloudwatch will retain empty Log Streams after the data retention time period. Those log streams should be deleted in order to save costs. This runbook can find unused log streams over a threshold number of days and help you delete them.
* AWS [Delete Unused NAT Gateways](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Delete_Unused_NAT_Gateways.ipynb): This runbook search for all unused NAT gateways from all the region and delete those gateways.
* AWS [Delete Unused Route53 HealthChecks](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Delete_Unused_Route53_Healthchecks.ipynb): When we associate healthchecks with an endpoint, Amazon Route53 sends health check requests to the endpoint IP address. These health checks validate that the endpoint IP addresses are operating as intended. There may be multiple reasons that healtchecks are lying usused for example- health check was mistakenly configured against your application by another customer, health check was configured from your account for testing purposes but wasn't deleted when testing was complete, health check was based on domain names and hence requests were sent due to DNS caching,  Elastic Load Balancing service updated its public IP addresses due to scaling, and the IP addresses were reassigned to your load balancer, and many more. This runbook finds such healthchecks and deletes them to save AWS costs.
* AWS [AWS Redshift Get Daily Costs from AWS Products](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Get_Redshift_Daily_Product_Costs.ipynb): This runbook can be used to create charts and alerts around Your AWS product usage. It requires a Cost and USage report to be live in RedShift.
* AWS [AWS Redshift Get Daily Costs from EC2 Usage](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Get_Redshift_EC2_Daily_Costs.ipynb): This runbook can be used to create charts and alerts around AWS EC2 usage. It requires a Cost and USage report to be live in RedShift.
* AWS [AWS Lowering CloudTrail Costs by Removing Redundant Trails](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Lowering_AWS_CloudTrail_Costs_by_Removing_Redundant_Trails.ipynb): The AWS CloudTrail service allows developers to enable policies managing compliance, governance, and auditing of their AWS account. In addition, AWS CloudTrail offers logging, monitoring, and storage of any activity around actions related to your AWS structures. The service activates from the moment you set up your AWS account and while it provides real-time activity visibility, it also means higher AWS costs. Here Finding Redundant Trails in AWS
* AWS [Purchase Reserved Nodes For Long Running AWS ElastiCache Clusters](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Purchase_Reserved_Cache_Nodes_For_Long_Running_ElastiCache_Clusters.ipynb): Ensuring that long-running AWS ElastiCache clusters have Reserved Nodes purchased for them is an effective cost optimization strategy for AWS users. By committing to a specific capacity of ElastiCache nodes for a period of one or three years, users can take advantage of significant discounts compared to On-Demand pricing. This approach can help optimize AWS costs for ElastiCache clusters that are expected to run for an extended period and have predictable usage patterns. This runbook helps us optimize costs by ensuring that Reserved Nodes are purchased for these ElastiCache clusters.
* AWS [Purchase Reserved Instances For Long Running AWS RDS Instances](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Purchase_Reserved_Instances_For_Long_Running_RDS_Instances.ipynb): Ensuring that long-running AWS RDS instances have Reserved Instances purchased for them is an important cost optimization strategy for AWS users. By committing to a specific capacity of RDS instances for a period of one or three years, users can take advantage of significant discounts compared to On-Demand pricing. This approach can help optimize AWS costs for RDS instances that are expected to run for an extended period and have predictable usage patterns. This runbook helps us to optimize costs by ensuring that Reserved Instances are purchased for these RDS instances.
* AWS [Purchase Reserved Nodes For Long Running AWS Redshift Clusters](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Purchase_Reserved_Nodes_For_Long_Running_Redshift_Clusters.ipynb): Ensuring that long-running AWS Redshift Clusters have Reserved Nodes purchased for them is a critical cost optimization strategy . By committing to a specific capacity of Redshift nodes for a period of one or three years, users can take advantage of significant discounts compared to On-Demand pricing. This approach can help optimize AWS costs for Redshift Clusters that are expected to run for an extended period and have predictable usage patterns. This runbook helps us to ensure that Reserved Nodes are purchased for these clusters so that users can effectively plan ahead, reduce their AWS bill, and optimize their costs over time.
* AWS [Release Unattached AWS Elastic IPs](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Release_Unattached_Elastic_IPs.ipynb): A disassociated Elastic IP address remains allocated to your account until you explicitly release it. AWS imposes a small hourly charge for Elastic IP addresses that are not associated with a running instance. This runbook can be used to deleted those unattached AWS Elastic IP addresses.
* AWS [Stop Idle EC2 Instances](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Stop_Idle_EC2_Instances.ipynb): This runbook can be used to Stop all EC2 Instances that are idle using given cpu threshold and duration.
* AWS [Stop all Untagged AWS EC2 Instances](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Stop_Untagged_EC2_Instances.ipynb): This runbook can be used to Stop all EC2 Instances that are Untagged
* AWS [Terminate EC2 Instances Without Valid Lifetime Tag](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Terminate_EC2_Instances_Without_Valid_Lifetime_Tag.ipynb): This runbook can be used to list all the EC2 instances which don't have a lifetime tag and then terminate them.
* AWS [AWS Redshift Update Database](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Update_Redshift_Database.ipynb): This runbook can be used to update a redshift database from a SQL file stored in S3.
* AWS [AWS Update Resource Tags](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Update_Resource_Tags.ipynb): This runbook can be used to update an existing tag to any resource in an AWS Region.
* AWS [AWS Add Tags Across Selected AWS Resources](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/AWS_Update_Resources_About_To_Expire.ipynb): This finds resources missing a tag, and allows you to choose which resources should add a specific tag/value pair.
* AWS [Delete Unused AWS NAT Gateways](https://github.com/unskript/Awesome-CloudOps-Automation/tree/master/AWS/Delete_Unused_AWS_NAT_Gateways.ipynb): This runbook can be used to identify and remove any unused NAT Gateways. This allows us to adhere to best practices and avoid unnecessary costs. NAT gateways are used to connect a private instance with outside networks. When a NAT gateway is provisioned, AWS charges you based on the number of hours it was available and the data (GB) it processes.
